Add collectionview docs - first part (#762)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/collectionview/styling/item-style-selector.md

---

# .NET MAUI CollectionView Item Style Selector

The .NET MAUI CollectionView exposes a conditional styling feature that allows you to apply different styles to each item depending on a specific condition.

![.NET MAUI CollectionView Item Style Selector](images/collectionview-itemstyle-selector.png)

The following example shows how to use the `ItemViewStyleSelector`:

**1.** Define the following business object:

<snippet id='collectionview-datamodel' />

**2.** Create a `ViewModel` class as shown below:

<snippet id='collectionview-viewmodel' />

**3.** Add the `RadCollectionView` definition with the `ItemViewStyleSelector` set:

<snippet id='collectionview-itemview-styleselector' />

**4.** Include the `telerik` namespace:

```XAML
xmlns:telerik="http://schemas.telerik.com/2022/xaml/maui" 
```

**5.** Add the following styles to the page's resource:

<snippet id='collectionview-itemview-styleselector-resources' />

**6.** Implement the conditional styling:

<snippet id='collectionview-styleselector' />

This is the result on WinUI:

![.NET MAUI CollectionView Item Style Selector](../images/collectionview-item-style-selector.png "Telerik .NET MAUI CollectionView")

> > For a runnable example demonstrating the CollectionView ItemView StyleSelector, see the [SDKBrowser Demo Application]({%slug sdkbrowser-app%}) and go to **CollectionView > Styling** category.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For a runnable example demonstrating the CollectionView `ItemViewStyleSelector`, see the [SDKBrowser Demo Application]({%slug sdkbrowser-app%}) and go to **CollectionView > Styling** category.
```
